The Neighbor Discovery Protocol is the IPv6 equivalent of ARP. It is used, between other things, to resolve the MAC address of an IP on the same network. For that, IPv6 uses [[Types of IPv6|solicited-node]] addresses.

NDP has various functions, some of them are:

- **"ARP" requests and responses**: NDP uses ICMPv6's Neighbor Solicitation (type 135) and Advertisement (type 136) to resolve MAC addresses of peers. It first sends an ICMPv6 type 135, with source IP address of the interface the device is sending the packet from, and the destination IP address is the solicited-node multicast address of the packet's destination address (this makes the request much more efficient). Then, if the peer exists within this network, it responds with ICMPv6 type 136, with source IP of the device's interface and destination IP of the received packet's source IP;
- **Router discovery**: using multicast address `FF02::2/16`, NDP can query the network for all routers contained within it. This is useful for automatically discovering routes and default-gateways. It uses ICMPv6's Router Solicitation and Advertisement message types (133 and 134, respectively). The solicitation is sent using the "all routers" link-local multicast address, and the response is a "broadcast", using the "all nodes" link-local multicast address `FF02::01/16`. Routers with IPv6 enabled automatically and periodically send ICMPv6 type 134 messages;
- **[[SLAAC]]**: when using network prefix auto-configuration, NDP neighbor solicitation and advertisement are used to learn the network prefix;
- **DAD**: the *Duplicate Address Detection* is similar to IPv4 ARP to verify if a address is already in use in the network. When any IPv6 device becomes active on the network, it sends a DAD with it's own solicited-node multicast address as a destination. If it does not get any replies, the address is not being used. If it does, however, the address is being used and is duplicated on the network.