A switch is a device that operates at the layer 2 OR layer 3 of a network (with the more common enterprise use being the layer 3 option). Switches are generally used to forward ethernet frames within a given network (in contrast with [[Routers|routers]], which are used to forward packets between networks). With a layer 2 switch, frames are forwarded based on the frame’s source and destination MAC addresses. This means that, even if the Layer 3 destination IP address is known, the switch can’t forward the frame accurately if it doesn’t have the related mac address registered in the CAM (the Content Addressable Memory) table. When a situation where the MAC address is in the frame’s header, but the switch doesn’t have a related CAM table entry, the switch just floods the frame to all ports, IN THE SAME VLAN, except the one that sent the frame. When the switch receives a frame with a MAC it doesn’t know, it adds an entry for it in the CAM table.

Switches can also be used to forward packets between networks. These are called Layer 3 switches, because they can operate in the layer 3 of the OSI stack. This means that they can do the functions of a router, but often they will be used to route packets between vlans within the same network context. This means that, while the switch does indeed route the packets between different networks, these networks are within the same scope (this is GENERALLY the use case. A layer 3 switch can totally route packets between any number of networks).

Switches can be used to forward frames inside a given network or, if they are a layer 3 switch, they can also forward packets between networks. Switches are designed to support connection between a large group of endpoints, with the most common configuration of ports being 24 ports and 48 ports.